Added a new doc for adding projects to the repo (#41949)
dotnet/aspnetcore: docs/AddingNewProjects.md

# Adding New Projects To The Repo

Sample PR of final result: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945

## Creating a new project

> 1. Create a new folder that will house your `.csproj` and other project-related files.

Reviewer: Worth noting here that if this is a new folder in https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/tree/main/src, you need to add a reference to it to eng\build.props:

https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/41e03fe5995cd59213056179343df168228650ce/eng/Build.props#L160-L168

And

https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/41e03fe5995cd59213056179343df168228650ce/eng/Build.props#L211-L219

Reviewer: Otherwise build.cmd won't know to build it. Your new project is inside of `src\Middleware`, so it's already included automatically & you didn't need to do this step.

2. (EXTREMELY IMPORTANT) Inside our new folder make a new folder called `src`.

> 3. In VS, Add a new `Solution Folder` in the new `src` folder from the previous step.

Reviewer: I think you want to add the solution folder from the folder you created in step 1, so that it will also include `tests` or `samples` you add there - can someone else confirm (@BrennanConroy @halter73 @Tratcher)? I realized recently I've been doing this wrong, I had manually been adding each .csproj (src, test, sample) one-by-one.

Reviewer: I mean that this step says to add the solution folder in `src/Middleware/WebTransport/src/` when it should actually be in `src/Middleware/WebTransport/`

Author: Oh, ok. Just pushed the change. Thanks

**Note:** Depending on what kind of project you are creating, VS will create different files in your project. Please make sure that it includes the following minimal subset of files:
- `AssemblyInfo.cs`
  - Lists various properties of your compiled assembly, such as to which other packages your `internal` properties and methods are available to.
- `[Your project name].csproj`
  - Lists various properties about your project such as dependencies, what files to compile, tags, description of the project, etc.
- `PublicAPI.Shipped.txt`
  - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`.
  - This only lists APIs that have already been shipped to customers and cannot be changed.
- `PublicAPI.UnShipped.txt`
  - Lists publicly visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`. If this is not configured properly, you will get build errors. VS will warn you though with green squiggly lines. If you see these squiggly lines, open the VS Quick Actions (CTRL + '.') and select the option to and it to the public API.
  - This only lists APIs that have NOT already been shipped to customers. So, these can still change.

## Adding to the rest of the repo

> 1. VS Should have already registered your `.csproj` in the corresponding solution (`.sln`) and solution filter (`.slnf`) files. See this [Example](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/commits/d1fddbfbac25c529e153a08ca1a694f32a69482e)

Reviewer: This still links to a commit where the .csproj is not inside of a `src` folder

- `[Your project name].csproj`
  - Lists various properties about your project such as dependencies, what files to compile, tags, description of the project, etc.
- `PublicAPI.Shipped.txt`
  - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`.
  - This only lists APIs that have already been shipped to customers and cannot be changed.
- `PublicAPI.UnShipped.txt`
  - Lists publicly visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`. If this is not configured properly, you will get build errors. VS will warn you though with green squiggly lines. If you see these squiggly lines, open the VS Quick Actions (CTRL + '.') and select the option to and it to the public API.
  - This only lists APIs that have NOT already been shipped to customers. So, these can still change.

## Adding to the rest of the repo
1. VS Should have already registered your `.csproj` in the corresponding solution (`.sln`) and solution filter (`.slnf`) files. See this [Example](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/commits/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626)

>   - If VS has not already modified these files, make sure to add it manually as is visible in the example listed above.

Author: Is this possible? Since VS generates all the unique ids for everything, it would be quite difficult to make sure that the ids are unique and match up. Having said this, this is why I included the links.

> # Adding New Projects To The Repo

Reviewer 2: Can you add an entry for this new document to the table of contents in `docs/README.dm`?

Sample PR of final result: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945

## Creating a new project
1. Create a new folder that will house your `.csproj` and other project related files.
2. In VS, Add a new `Solution Folder` in the same place as the new folder from the previous step.
3. Create the project via the VS `Add` menu (select the folder -> right click -> Add -> follow the wizard).

> 4. Add the following `ItemGroup` to your newly generated `.csproj`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: A brief explainer to outline that this is for interacting with the PublicAPI analyzer?

> 4. Add the following `ItemGroup` to your newly generated `.csproj`:

Author: Are we going for minimal descriptions? I was trying to cover everything as removing is easier than adding. Do you want to remove the whole section or just the obvious parts?

> 4. Add the following `ItemGroup` to your newly generated `.csproj`:

Author: Removed

**Note:** Depending on what kind of project you are creating, VS will create different files in your project. Please make sure that it includes the following minimal subset of files:
- `AssemblyInfo.cs`
  - Lists various properties of your compiled assembly, such as to which other packages your `internal` properties and methods are available to.
- `[Your project name].csproj`
  - Lists various properties about your project such as dependencies, what files to compile, tags, description of the project, etc.
- `PublicAPI.Shipped.txt`
  - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`.
  - This only lists APIs that have already been shipped to customers and cannot be changed.
- `PublicAPI.UnShipped.txt`
  - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`. If this is not configured properly, you will get build errors. VS will warn you though with green squiggly lines. If you see these squiggly lines, open the VS Quick Actions (CTRL + '.') and select the option to ad it to the public API.
  - This only lists APIs that have NOT already been shipped to customers. So, these can still change.

## Adding to the rest of the repo

> - VS Should have already registered your CS projec in the corresponding solution (`.sln`) and solution filter (`.slnf`) files. See this [Example](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/files#diff-cd977e0a76b37d35c04d9d819ea66ef8a35d9ef7f86a9a7c774d751e8119db4fR1713-R11118)

Reviewer: CS projec -> .csproj

> - VS Should have already registered your CS projec in the corresponding solution (`.sln`) and solution filter (`.slnf`) files. See this [Example](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/files#diff-cd977e0a76b37d35c04d9d819ea66ef8a35d9ef7f86a9a7c774d751e8119db4fR1713-R11118)

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to link to an existing commit in the repo instead of a diff in a PR?

Author: Is this better: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/commits/d1fddbfbac25c529e153a08ca1a694f32a69482e

Author: ```
https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945/commits/d1fddbfbac25c529e153a08ca1a694f32a69482e
```
^The actual link without Github magic

  - If VS has not already modified these files, make sure to add it manually as is visible in the example listed above.
- Add the following new line to the `eng/ProjectReferences.props` file to include your new project:
    ```XML
    <ProjectReferenceProvider Include="[Your project id]" ProjectPath="$(RepoRoot)src\[Rest of the path to your project]" />
    ```

> - Add the following new line to the `eng/SharedFramework.Local.props` file to include your new project:

Reviewer: This is only needed if you set `IsAspNetCoreApp` to true

# Adding New Projects To The Repo

Sample PR of final result: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945

## Creating a new project
1. Create a new folder that will house your `.csproj` and other project-related files.
2. (EXTREMELY IMPORTANT) Inside our new folder make a new folder called `src`.
3. In VS, Add a new `Solution Folder` in the new folder from the first step.
4. Create the project via the VS `Add` menu (select the folder -> right click -> Add -> follow the wizard).

    **Note:** Depending on what kind of project you are creating, VS will create different files in your project. You might also want to add the following files:
    - `PublicAPI.Shipped.txt`
      - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`.
      - This only lists APIs that have already been shipped to customers and cannot be changed.

>       - There is an empty template at `eng/PublicAPI.empty.txt` for your reference.

Reviewer 3: Instead, recommend copying the file into the right location and renaming it.

    - `PublicAPI.UnShipped.txt`

>       - Lists publicly visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`. If this is not configured properly, you will get build errors. VS will warn you though with green squiggly lines. If you see these squiggly lines, open the VS Quick Actions (CTRL + '.') and select the option to and it to the public API.

Reviewer 3: 👍

      - This only lists APIs that have NOT already been shipped to customers. So, these can still change.

>       - There is an empty template at `eng/PublicAPI.empty.txt` for your reference.

Reviewer 3: Again, copying is easier.

    - `AssemblyInfo.cs`
      - Lists various properties of your compiled assembly, such as to which other packages your `internal` properties and methods are available to.

>       - You can also expose internals via the `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` item in your project file instead of using this `AssemblyInfo.cs` file.

Reviewer 3: nit
```suggestion
      - You can also expose internals via `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` items in your project file instead of using this `AssemblyInfo.cs` file.
```

# Adding New Projects To The Repo

Sample PR of final result: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41945

## Creating a new project
1. Create a new folder that will house your `.csproj` and other project-related files.

> 2. (EXTREMELY IMPORTANT) Inside our new folder make a new folder called `src`.

Reviewer 3: I still suggest making it clear `src/` is just one option. When adding a `test/` project or similar the issues in (4) do not apply.

> 3. In VS, Add a new `Solution Folder` in the new folder from the first step.
> 4. Create the project via the VS `Add` menu (select the folder -> right click -> Add -> follow the wizard).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Open the `.slnf` you want to add your project to in VS. Then add a new `Solution Folder` in the new folder with the same name and location as the actual folder created in the first step.
4. Create the project via the VS `Add` menu (select the folder -> right click -> Add -> New Project... -> follow the wizard).
```

      - Lists publically visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`.
      - This only lists APIs that have already been shipped to customers and cannot be changed.
      - There is an empty template at `eng/PublicAPI.empty.txt` for your reference. You can copy and rename the file to add it to your project. Make sure the name is exactly as shown above.
    - `PublicAPI.UnShipped.txt`
      - Lists publicly visible APIs that are exported from your final compiled `.dll`. If this is not configured properly, you will get build errors. VS will warn you though with green squiggly lines. If you see these squiggly lines, open the VS Quick Actions (CTRL + '.') and select the option to and it to the public API.
      - This only lists APIs that have NOT already been shipped to customers. So, these can still change.
      - There is an empty template at `eng/PublicAPI.empty.txt` for your reference. You can copy and rename the file to add it to your project. Make sure the name is exactly as shown above.
    - `AssemblyInfo.cs`
      - Lists various properties of your compiled assembly, such as to which other packages your `internal` properties and methods are available to.

>       - You can also expose internals via `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` items in your project file instead of using this `AssemblyInfo.cs` file.

Reviewer 2: In the past, we've talked about being consistent about using the `InternalsVisibleTo` property vs. AssemblyInfo for internals. I think we should lean towards recommending people to use the `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` here so we can be more consistent in the future.

Author: Ok. How do you recommend I update this? Should I just remove this bullet about `AssemblyInfo.cs` and add your comment as a note under the `Adding to the rest of the repo` section? I just think that this point seems to deviate a bit from the main objective of this particular doc. Is there a better place to put this that might be more directly applicable to the contents of csproj files or the `AssemblyInfo.cs` file?

>     - `AssemblyInfo.cs`
>       - Lists various properties of your compiled assembly, such as to which other packages your `internal` properties and methods are available to.
>       - You can also expose internals via `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` items in your project file instead of using this `AssemblyInfo.cs` file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - You can expose internals via `@(InternalsVisibleTo)` items in your `.csproj`.
      ```XML
      <ItemGroup>
        <InternalsVisibleTo Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.My.TestProject" />
      ```
```

To @captainsafia's point, we shouldn't need to mention `AssemblyInfo.cs` at all since we no longer recommend it for `InternalsVisibleTo`.

Also, are we using 2 or 4 spaces for indentation? We seem to be inconsistent with this.

## Adding to the rest of the repo

> 1. VS Should have already registered your `.csproj` in the corresponding solution ([`.sln`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/AspNetCore.sln)) and solution filter ([`.slnf`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/src/Middleware/Middleware.slnf#L107-L109)) files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. VS should have already registered your `.csproj` in the corresponding solution ([`.sln`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/AspNetCore.sln)) and solution filter ([`.slnf`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/src/Middleware/Middleware.slnf#L107-L109)) files.
```

> 1. VS should have already registered your `.csproj` in the corresponding solution ([`.sln`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/AspNetCore.sln)) and solution filter ([`.slnf`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/586ccc8c895862b65645c4b0f979db1eecd29626/src/Middleware/Middleware.slnf#L107-L109)) files.

Reviewer 4: This is the first time the `.sln` or .`slnf` was mentioned. Why should they already be updated? Unless you opened an existing `.sln` or `.slnf` in the first place, I don't think it would be unless we're talking about a *new* `.sln` which we don't want.

The very start of this document should make it clear what we're opening in VS. If someone just does "Create a new project" outside the context of an existing solution, VS will helpfully (or unhelpfully in our case) try to crate a new `.sln` for you.

Reviewer 4: I think the edit I suggested in https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/41949#discussion_r891641435 is probably sufficient for this.

>   - If VS has not already modified these files, make sure to add it manually as is visible in the example listed above.

Reviewer 4: If you did create a project outside of `AspNetCore.sln` adding it manually with a plain text editor is nearly impossible. This should mention that adding an "Existing Project..." in VS

```suggestion
  - If VS has not already modified these files, open the `.slnf` you want to add the project to. Create a solution folder for your project it if doesn't exist already. Then right click solution foulder -> Add -> Existing Project... -> follow the wizard.
```

2. Run the `eng/scripts/GenerateProjectList.ps1` file to regenerate a number of `eng/*.props` files e.g. ProjectReferences.props.

**Note:** If you are adding a new project to the root `src` directory, you will also need to add a reference in both of the `DotNetProjects` lists of the `eng/Build.props` file. The first list (the one with condition `'$(BuildMainlyReferenceProviders)' != 'true'"`) has items in the format of:
  ```XML
   <DotNetProjects Include="
                          $(RepoRoot)src\[YOUR FOLDER]\**\*.csproj;
                          ...
  ```
while the second (the one with condition `'$(BuildMainlyReferenceProviders)' == 'true'"`) has them in the format of (note the second `src`):
  ```XML
  <DotNetProjects Include="
                        $(RepoRoot)src\[YOUR FOLDER]\**\src\*.csproj;
                        ...
  ```

## Including your project in SharedFx

> 1. (OPTIONAL) Add the following line to the `.csproj`'s `PropertyGroup` to include your project in the SharedFx API:

Reviewer 3: Minor but this section is entirely optional, not just the first line
